---
featured: true
date: '2019-08-06'
title: '30-50 Feral Hogs'
cover_image: './images/30-50.png'
v_link: 't6NTwFTJJgg'
demo_link: 'https://elijahcobb.itch.io/30-50-feral-hogs'
techs: ['Design','Programming','Pixel Art']
tags: ['Unity','Photoshop']
description: "Legit Question for Rural Americans: How do I kill the 30-50 feral hogs that run into my yard within 3-5 mins while my small kids play? Let's find out!"
---

30-50 Feral Hogs was made during the craze of hog based memes in August of 2019. It's not my best work, but due to the explosive popularity of the meme, it continues to be my most popular game.

The entire game was made in about 8 hours, with maybe half of that being bug fixing because I was still rather new to Unity at that time, and had never made a fully 2D game in the engine before.

## Process

The process went like so:
1. Pixel Art
2. Father
3. Pigs
4. Levels
5. Release
6. Sounds and Polish

First thing I did was get the art for the feral hogs and the father drawn up and in the game. Once there I got the basic movement and shooting in. Then I got the pigs to spawn semi-randomly to run towards the poor children. Once there was the full gameplay loop (and oh so small of a loop it is) I implemented the game controller and round system along with the UI. The moment the game was fully playable I exported a build and put it up on [Itch.io](https://elijahcobb.itch.io/30-50-feral-hogs). This was becasue time was of the essense on this project. The meme grew older every hour and would soon vanish into the depths of internet lore. If I didn't get the game out night of, I would lose a drastic amount of potential players. (2/3 of total views happened in the first 3 days after of launch.) 

It was only after getting a good nights rest that I returned to the project to add the ever imporant gun shot sound effect and smoke particles.

After releasing the update I spent the rest of the day taking in the media wave that I had just hitched a ride on. Beyond the explosion of twitter these media outlets mentioned the game in their coverage of the meme:

- Vox
- Washinton Post
- Slate

And these sites covered the game in a full article

- Forbes
- Indie Game Website
- Geek.com
